As part of step six, we will design the Azure Virtual Network. From the Azure Virtual Network perspective, we will create the Web, App, DB, and Bastion subnets, along with the associated Network Security Groups (NSGs) for each respective subnet. 

We will create the Virtual Network, define the subnets, configure the Network Security Groups, and associate them with the respective subnets. We will also understand how to work with output values in Terraform and the concept of output values in Azure Virtual Network design.

**Azure Virtual Network Design (Step 6)**: In the current step, the focus is on designing an Azure Virtual Network (VNet). The following elements will be configured:
   - **Subnets**: Web, App, DB, and Bastion subnets.
   - **Network Security Groups (NSGs)**: These NSGs will be created and associated with the respective subnets.
**Output Values**: Output values will be used to retrieve and display important information related to the virtual network.

**Terraform Meta-arguments**:
   - **`depends_on`**: This meta-argument will be used to specify dependencies between resources, ensuring resources are created in the correct order.
   - **`for_each`**: This meta-argument allows creating multiple instances of resources dynamically based on a given collection.


### Terraform File Structure Overview
From a Terraform perspective, there are two kinds resource:  **major resource** and **minor resource**. For instance, designing a Virtual Network is a major resource type, while a resource group can be considered a minor resource. Although resource groups are minor resources, their values still reside in generic input variables.

Random resources are simpler and do not require variables. However, for more complex resources such as the Virtual Network, we will use variableization to make the code more flexible and reusable. For production-grade standards, at least the Virtual Network will use variables. 

For other resources, such as Linux Virtual Machines, Bastion hosts, and service hosts, we will leave placeholder files for input variables. This means we will define input variables for those resources and output values for them. 

- **Organizing the Terraform Files**: For a clean and scalable approach, we organize the files for each resource:
   - `vnet-input-variable` for input variables related to the Virtual Network.
   - `vnet-output` for output values related to the Virtual Network.
   - The resource file for the Virtual Network itself.
   - Separate files for each subnet and their respective NSGs (e.g., `web-subnet` with its NSG, `app-subnet` with its NSG, and so on).

When dealing with a large amount of code and resources, proper organization of Terraform files is crucial. If everything were written in a single file (e.g., `main.tf`), managing and troubleshooting the code would become difficult. Hence, organizing the files in this structured manner allows for easier management, troubleshooting, and modifications.



**Step-06:Defining Resource Group**
#### **vnet-input-variables.tf** 
- Defining Variables : The first step is to define the required variables. We will define variables such as:
   - `vnet_name` 
   - `vnet_address_space` 
   - `web_subnet_name` 
   - `web_subnet_address`
   - `app_subnet_name`
   - `app_subnet_address`
   - `db_subnet_name`
   - `db_subnet_address`
   - `bastion_subnet_name`
   - `bastion_subnet_address`

```json
# virtual network name
variable "vnet_name"{
   type = String
   description = "virtual network name"
   default = "vnet-default"
}
# virtual network address space
variabele "vnet_address_space" {
   type = list(string)
   description = "virtual network address space"
   default = [ "10.0.0.0/16" ]
}

# virtual network web subnet name
variable "web_subnet_name" {
   type = String
   description = "virtual network web subnet name"
   default = "websubnet-default"
}

# web subnet address space
variable "web_subnet_address" {
   type = String
   description = "web subnet address space"
   default = [ "10.0.1.0/24" ]
}

# App Subnet Name
variable "app_subnet_name" {
  description = "Virtual Network App Subnet Name"
  type = string
  default = "appsubnet"
}
# App Subnet Address Space
variable "app_subnet_address" {
  description = "Virtual Network App Subnet Address Spaces"
  type = list(string)
  default = ["10.0.11.0/24"]
}

# Database Subnet Name
variable "db_subnet_name" {
  description = "Virtual Network Database Subnet Name"
  type = string
  default = "dbsubnet"
}
# Database Subnet Address Space
variable "db_subnet_address" {
  description = "Virtual Network Database Subnet Address Spaces"
  type = list(string)
  default = ["10.0.21.0/24"]
}

# Bastion / Management Subnet Name
variable "bastion_subnet_name" {
  description = "Virtual Network Bastion Subnet Name"
  type = string
  default = "bastionsubnet"
}
# Bastion / Management Subnet Address Space
variable "bastion_subnet_address" {
  description = "Virtual Network Bastion Subnet Address Spaces"
  type = list(string)
  default = ["10.0.100.0/24"]
}
```

#### **virtual_network.tf** 
```json
resource "azurerm_virtual_network" "vnet" {
   name = "${local.resource_name_prefix}-${var.vnet_name}"
   location = azurerm_resource_group.myrg.location
   resource_group_name =  azurerm_resource_group.myrg.name
   address_space = var.vnet_address_space
   tags = local.common_tags
}
```


