<ol><li><p><strong>Explain the Role of Dockerfile.</strong></p><ul><li><p><strong>Answer:</strong> A Dockerfile is a script containing a series of instructions and commands used for creating a container image. It automates the process of building a Docker image. A Dockerfile defines what goes on in the environment inside a container. It can include instructions to install specific software, environmental variables, and startup commands.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><strong>What are Kubernetes Namespaces and What is Their Purpose?</strong></p><ul><li><p><strong>Answer:</strong> Namespaces in Kubernetes are a way to divide cluster resources between multiple users and applications. They provide a scope for grouping and isolating resources such as Pods, Services, and Deployments. Namespaces are particularly useful in environments with many users and teams to avoid conflicts and manage access and resources more effectively.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><strong>What is a Pod in Kubernetes?</strong></p><ul><li><p><strong>Answer:</strong> A Pod is the smallest and most basic deployable object in Kubernetes. It represents a single instance of a running process in your cluster and can contain one or more containers. These containers in a Pod are scheduled on the same node and share the same network namespace, IP address, and port space.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><strong>What are Helm Charts and how are they useful?</strong></p><ul><li><p><strong>Answer:</strong> Helm Charts are packages in Helm that contain all the necessary files and configurations to deploy an application, tool, or service inside a Kubernetes cluster. They promote reusability and can encapsulate complex Kubernetes resources, making it easier to share and deploy applications.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><strong>Explain Horizontal Pod Autoscaling (HPA) in Kubernetes.</strong></p><ul><li><p><strong>Answer:</strong> Horizontal Pod Autoscaling (HPA) automatically scales the number of Pods in a deployment, replica set, or stateful set based on observed CPU utilization or other select metrics. HPA adjusts the number of Pods in a replication controller, deployment, or replica set based on observed CPU utilization or, with custom metrics support, other metrics.</p></li></ul></li></ol>