<ol><li><p><strong>What is a Kubernetes Job and What is its Purpose?</strong></p><ul><li><p><strong>Answer:</strong> A Kubernetes Job is a resource used to manage a task that runs to completion, as opposed to long-running services. It is used for tasks like batch processing, data analysis, or batch computation that need to run once and complete successfully. Kubernetes ensures that a Job runs until the specified number of completions is achieved.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><strong>How Does a Kubernetes Job Differ from a Pod?</strong></p><ul><li><p><strong>Answer:</strong> While a Pod in Kubernetes represents a single instance of a running process, a Job manages one or more Pods that are expected to terminate successfully (i.e., exit with a zero status). Pods created by a Job are meant to execute a specific task and then exit successfully, indicating the completion of the Job.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><strong>What is a ReplicaSet in Kubernetes?</strong></p><ul><li><p><strong>Answer:</strong> A ReplicaSet in Kubernetes is a workload API object used to ensure that a specified number of pod replicas are running at any given time. It's primarily used to maintain the availability of a set of identical Pods. If there are not enough replicas, it creates more; if there are too many, it deletes some.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><strong>How Does a ReplicaSet Differ from a ReplicationController?</strong></p><ul><li><p><strong>Answer:</strong> A ReplicaSet is the next-generation ReplicationController. The key difference is that ReplicaSets support set-based selector requirements as opposed to the equality-based selector requirements of ReplicationControllers. This means ReplicaSets can select a broader range of pods based on labels.</p></li></ul></li><li><p><strong>What Happens if a Pod in a ReplicaSet Fails?</strong></p><ul><li><p><strong>Answer:</strong> If a pod in a ReplicaSet fails (due to a node failure or termination), the ReplicaSet notices the decrease in the number of replicas and creates a new pod to replace it. The new pod is created based on the pod template defined in the ReplicaSet.</p></li></ul></li></ol>