### Resource Change Behaviour in Terraform
Resource Management in Terraform refers to the process of managing the lifecycle of infrastructure resources (e.g., virtual machines, networking components, storage, etc.) through Terraform configuration files. Terraform interacts with cloud providers or other infrastructure platforms to create, modify, and delete resources based on the desired state defined in the configuration.

- There are 5 types of behaviour
    - Create
    - Update In-Place
    - Destroy-Recreate
    - Destroy
    - No Changes: When the resource configuration matches the desired state.


**Update In-Place**

When Terraform can update a resource without destroying and recreating it, it performs an in-place update. This occurs when the change is supported by the resource provider and doesn't require a full replacement.
- Example :  we can add an additional tag to the virtual network resource.
     ```hcl
     tags = {
       environment = "dev"
     }
     ```
   - Run the `terraform validate` command to ensure that the changes made to the configuration are correct.
   - Run the `terraform plan` command. The output will show that one change is required, specifically:
     - You will see the message `1 to change`, indicating that one resource is going to be modified.
     - The change will be highlighted by the tilde (`~`) symbol, indicating an in-place update. ie ` ~ update in-place`
     - The tag for the virtual network will be updated, as shown:
       ```
       ~ tags = {
           "environment" = "dev"
         }
       ```
     - The tilde symbol (`~`) indicates an in-place update to the resource, meaning Terraform will modify the existing resource without destroying and recreating it.
   - Run the `terraform apply -auto-approve` command to apply the changes.
     - Terraform will update the resource with the new tag, and you will see:
     - The plan shows the tags being updated with the `environment = "dev"` value.
     - No other changes will be made, so the other resources are not affected.
- **Note** :
    - Not all resource properties support in-place updates.
    - Terraform tries to update resources without disruption to minimize downtime.


**Destroy and Recreate (Resource Replacement)**

If a change is incompatible with the current state of a resource (due to limitations of the resource type or provider), Terraform will destroy the existing resource and create a new one with the updated configuration.
- This is required when changes cannot be applied to the resource in place.
- It can lead to downtime during resource recreation.
- Example :  we can change the name of nic resource.
    - Review the Plan & Execute: `terraform plan` , Terraform will analyze the changes and provide the following output
    ```sh
    -/+ destroy and then create replacement
     #  -----------
     #  -----------
     #  -----------
    azurerm_network_interface.myvmnic must be replaced
     #  -----------
     #  -----------
     #  -----------
    Plan: 1 to add, 1 to destroy, 0 to change.
    ```
    - This indicates: 
        - 1 resource will be added (+ symbol).
        - 1 resource will be destroyed (- symbol).
        - Terraform is not updating the existing resource in-place because the name change requires a full replacement.


**Destroy**

When a resource is removed from the Terraform configuration, Terraform will destroy the corresponding resource in the infrastructure.
- Destruction can  be initiated manually by running `terraform destroy`.
- This operation removes the resource entirely from the infrastructure.
    - `-` indicates resources will be destroyed (- symbol).
    ```sh
    - destroy
     #  -----------
     #  -----------
     #  -----------
     azurerm_network_interface.myvmnic will be destroyed
     #  -----------
     azurerm_public_ip.mypublicip will be destroyed  
     #  .
     #  .
     #  .
    Plan: 0 to add, 0 to change, 5 to destroy
    ```